Authors@R (#49)
r-devel/cran-cookbook: website/description_issues.qmd

------------------------------------------------------------------------

# Using Authors@R

## Problem

> You have not properly declared the authors, maintainers and copyright holders in the Authors@R section of the DESCRIPTION file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You have not properly declared the authors, maintainers and copyright holders in the `Authors@R` section of the DESCRIPTION file.
```

Below you write `Authors@R` as in quotes. I suggest adding them here as well.

## Solution

Add the `Authors@R` field in the DESCRIPTION file. 

### Details

You can find more roles in the help documentation by running `?utils::person`. Make sure the provided email address is actively monitored, as it will be the primary point of contact with CRAN for future updates and fixes.

```{r}
Authors@R: person("Jane", "Smith", email = "chef@cran-cookbook.com",

>   role = c("aut", "cre"))

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  role = c("aut", "cre"), ORCID = "<USER-ORCID>")
```
Related to the commends about ORCID, it was recommended to add this identifier: it helps detecting people using different emails and might help to track down people for messages. 
Related to this there is also now a recommendation for companies/organizations to use their own identifiers ROR, I think.

Reviewer: Yes! Forgot to mention those identifiers. Thanks for the comment

```

> 

Reviewer: Maybe you can add a paragraph (or callout note) to inform that the `Maintainer` and `Author` fields are auto-generated based on the `Authors@R` and therefore don't need to be added manually. 
Adding them by hand varying from the auto-generated version will cause an automatic rejection on CRAN.

::: callout-note

> If your package uses the older method of specifying separate `Maintainer` and `Author` fields in the DESCRIPTION file, it won’t be rejected solely because of this. However, this approach is less preferred.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your package uses the older method of specifying separate `Maintainer` and `Author` fields in the DESCRIPTION file, it will be rejected because of this.
```
There was a change a few months ago. Since R packages now have their own `doi`, using `Authors@R` is now mandatory. 
For old packages, declaring the Authors using the old system it is recommended to change. However, your package won't be taken off CRAN because of a missing `Authors@R`-field. 
We recommend changing soon, though (also said by Kurt Hornik in his keynote speech at useR!2024).
